Command for overriding platform: `volta run` (#39)
volta-cli/rfcs: text/0000-volta-run.md

## Specifying Environment Variables

The `volta run` command should have a `--env` flag that can be set multiple times to specify different environment variables. These flags will allow the user to add extra environment variables to the command they are executing, in a cross-platform way. On Unix systems, this behavior can be simulated by setting the environment variables while calling `volta run` (e.g. `EMBER_ENV=production volta run ...`), however on Windows, there isn't a simple shorthand for adding environment variables to a one-off command. The `--env` option on `volta run` will allow users to set those environment variables at the command line on any system, without having to worry about how that system manages its environment.

## Verbose Output

In order to provide meaningful verbose output, we will need to update the `SourcedPlatformSpec` model to support platforms that come from the command line as well. This will likely require a refactor to support specifying the version for each tool explicitly, as opposed to having a single `Source` for the Platform as a whole.

## Additional Package Managers

> Currently, the only package manager that we support specifying on its own is Yarn. However, there are plans to support `npm` in the near future and farther out, we may want to support others (e.g. `pnpm`, `entropic`, etc). For each aspect of the platform that we support, we'll need to accompanying flags to the `run` command that support specifying the version of that tool. (i.e. `--pnpm <version>` and `--no-pnpm`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the only package manager that we support specifying on its own is Yarn. However, there are plans to support customizing the `npm` version independently from the version installed by node in the near future and farther out, we may want to support others (e.g. `pnpm`, `entropic`, etc). For each aspect of the platform that we support, we'll need to accompanying flags to the `run` command that support specifying the version of that tool. (i.e. `--pnpm <version>` and `--no-pnpm`).
```

- Feature Name: volta_run
- Start Date: 2019-09-14
- RFC PR: (leave this empty)
- Volta Issue: (leave this empty)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Add a `volta run` command, allowing users to execute tools with an override on the detected platform.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Volta currently will automatically detect the platform (Node runtime and yarn version) based on the context of where you are in the file system. However, there are occasionally times when you want to run a command using a different version of Node or Yarn than what Volta detects, without changing the pinned or default versions. To support those use-cases, we should provide a command that allows users to execute a command with a platform specified on the command-line.

# Pedagogy
[pedagogy]: #pedagogy

> We will need to document the existence of `volta run` and how the users can specify the versions of Node and Yarn when running a command. This will be provided on the command line by StructOpt, however it should also be explained in detail in the documentation. We should also document how the overall platform is resolved if the user specifies only one of Node or Yarn, so that the behavior is clear to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will need to document the existence of `volta run` and how the users can specify the versions of Node and Yarn when running a command. This will be provided on the command line help output, however it should also be explained in detail in the documentation. We should also document how the overall platform is resolved if the user specifies only one of Node or Yarn, so that the behavior is clear to users.
```

`StructOpt` seems like a _somewhat_ unimportant technical detail here, and I think the userland thing that you meant was that the `volta` usage output would include info on `run`.

Reviewer: > We should also document how the overall platform is resolved if the user specifies only one of Node or Yarn, so that the behavior is clear to users.

Do you mean in the website? In the help output? Both?

Author: Good question! My intention was on the website, where we can be more long-form about the nuances of the command.

# Details
[details]: #details

The new command will have the structure:

```

> volta run [--node <version>] [--yarn <version>] <command>

Reviewer: Since we ultimately _plan_ to allow custom `npm` version pinning, we should at least consider (here, in unanswered questions, a future changes section) what pinning the `npm` version would look like also.

In addition, there are quite a few _other_ tools / registries that we _might_ eventually want to support (entropic, pnpm, etc). Do we need an option for each?

Reviewer: Can you add an example command here (just below the usage)? It is not obvious how the command is specified and we don't give an example until a few sections later.

Author: Done and done. I added an example immediately after the usage, and a new section "Additional Package Managers" to cover how it would look as we add support for other parts of the platform.

```

> Specifically, the `--node` and `--yarn` settings will need to be specified _before_ the command to be executed, as everything after the command will be treated as arguments to the command itself. This will allow users to specify a full command, with any command-line flags they need, without having to append `--` to separate the `volta run` command from the others.

Reviewer: I think it's definitely great to not _require_ the `--` separator, but I'd like to suggest that we consider supporting it if used. The `--` as a separator is _pretty_ common, and might feel more natural to folks. I'm a bit torn there because this may just make it more complicated (having to display both versions in docs and stuff) and choosing only one may be best. 

What do you think?

Reviewer: Some examples that might be useful here:

```
volta run --node 10 npm run some-script -- --somescript-arg=true
volta run --node 8 --yarn 1.17 yarn some-script --somescript-arg
volta run --node 12 ember build
```

Author: I'm not 100% sure, but I think that we will implicitly support the `--`, however we'll still need the `--node`, `--yarn`, etc. to come before the command.

Reviewer: @charlespierce - The main thing I was pointing out here is that the `--` in the first example was how `npm` has you pass arguments/options to a `npm run-script`.

## Platform Resolution

If the user specifies only one (or none) of the platform settings when calling `volta run`, the remaining settings will fall back to the existing context-aware logic. So if the user is in a project with `node@10.16.0` and `yarn@1.17.3` pinned, and runs:

```
volta run --node 8 ember serve
```

We will resolve the a platform that has `node@8` and `yarn@1.17.3`, with the latter pulled from the existing pinned project and the former overridden by the command-line flag. This allows users to specify the parts of the platform that they want to change, while avoiding the necessity of specifying everything, even those things that don't change.

## 3rd-Party Binaries

> After resolving the platform, if the command the user is executing is a 3rd party binary (not `node`, `npm`, `npx`, or `yarn`), then we will still do resolution of that binary relative to the current project (if any). That means if we are inside a project with that binary as a dependency, we will still use the project-local version of that tool.

Reviewer: Can you tweak the prose here to make it clearer that:

1) this isnt' a behavior change
2) that the tool (local or global) will specifically use the node/yarn version specified

I _think_ these are both true, but the prose doesn't make it clear when I first read...

Author: Good catch, cleaned that up a bit.

## Verbose Output

In order to provide meaningful verbose output, we will need to update the `SourcedPlatformSpec` model to support platforms that come from the command line as well. This will likely require a refactor to support specifying the version for each tool explicitly, as opposed to having a single `Source` for the Platform as a whole.

# Critique
[critique]: #critique

## Command Name

There are alternative names we could use for the command, such as:

- `volta exec`
- `volta do`

However, `volta run` aligns with the "run script" command in both `npm` and `yarn`, so it seems to fit the best for this use-case.

## Platform Resolution

> Instead of inheriting the platform from the current, we could treat it as purely defined on the command-line. This would give users total control over all of the pieces of the platform, including allowing them to remove `yarn`, even if it is specified in the project or default platforms.

Reviewer: I'd prefer to do `--no-yarn` style option to support the "don't fallback" style.

Author: I like that better than the example I had in "Unresolved Questions" of `--yarn none`. Still open if we want to support that, but I can see it being useful.

However, `volta run` aligns with the "run script" command in both `npm` and `yarn`, so it seems to fit the best for this use-case.

> ## Version Flags

Reviewer: Thank you for adding this section. I do agree with the conclusion (that the more common case should be what we optimize), and I think that as written this RFC doesn't _prevent_ us from adding `--with <any valid volta install argument>` in the future as a follow up RFC.

👍

Author: Definitely not, we can always make changes in a follow-up, or if we decide after actually using the command that it needs to change.

## Overriding the shims directly

Instead of (or in addition to) the `volta run` command, we could provide the ability for users to override the shims using environment variables (e.g. `VOLTA_NODE` to change the version of Node). This would provide a different way of specifying the platform that overrides the normal resolution algorithm. However, ultimately this approach has a few issues that clash with the goals of Volta:

- It requires users to think about the existence of Volta when running the shims. When a user calls `yarn`, the goal of Volta is that they shouldn't have to think about the fact that Volta is figuring it out, it should just work as they expect. If we add environment variables that can change how those work, it could lead to difficult-to-debug situations where a user has an exported variable in their terminal that is breaking things and it's not immediately obvious why.

> - It's not as ergonomic cross-platform. As mentioned above, Windows doesn't have as easy as shorthand for setting environment variables on a given command, so Windows users would have to jump through more hoops to get access to this behavior. Volta is committed to keeping Windows as a first-class citizen, so we don't want to break that by relying too much on Unix-isms.

Reviewer: IMHO, this is the deal breaker for this one.

Author: Agreed, especially as we’re already supporting the `--env` option in the other use-case.
